This Repository contains projects:
Customer Churn Prediction model: Designed and implemented a Customer Segmentation and Churn Prediction Model to optimize marketing strategies and enhance customer retention. Leveraged data analytics and machine learning techniques using python and its extensive libraries to analyze customer behavior, identify segments, and predict churn probability. 
Built using telecom industry data, this project is focused on understanding customer behaviour which would further help the industry or business in making business decisions relying on data. As we know, in today's times, data s the most important assetto any business, but only the ones who have understood its importance and took measures to convert data into information and knowledge have proved to be ahead of ones who haven't.
While companies focus on using its data to cater to business needs, here are two projects made with the intention to increase my understanding on how Machine Learning and Data Science revamps businesses to the next level.
I have performed customer segmentation using clusterning (k-means) algorithm and later built a churn prediction model using logistic regression algorithm. 

Market Basket analysis: Thid project An in-depth analysis of customer purchasing patterns and uncovers hidden associations between products.
Market Basket Analysis serves as a powerful tool for businesses to gain a deeper understanding of customer preferences, optimize marketing efforts, and drive revenue growth through intelligent product recommendations. I have used apriori algorithm to perform the same.
